Segmentation Algorithm
----------------------
First the algorithm loads the image and converts it to grayscale. Then it applies a variety of filters to build an 11 dimensional feature vector for each pixel (called the pixel-vector). The filters used are: gaussian filter with 3 different sigmas, lacplacian filter with 4 different sigmas, sobel filter (x and y directions) with 2 different sigmas. The responses for each of these filters are then normalized, so each element in a vector for a certain pixel has range 0-1.

Now the user is asked to select a training example. The user places a box around a single specimen. Then the algorithm creates a feature vector by generating _n_ random 2D points inside the box (_n_ is typically 100-500), called the template. A feature vector for the template is made from the pixel-vectors for the _n_ points that were randomly generated. For convenience, the template points are normalized (the x and y components are random values from 0-1), so that the template can be rescaled when matching to different areas on the image.

We match the template F to another box in the image by finding the corresponding template points on the new region, and constructing a feature vector for that region T. Both feature vectors are essentially an 11x_n_ matrix. The distance between the two feature vectors is the sum of the squares of all the elements of F-T. The score is the computed using the distance, so that a distance of 0 corresponds to a score of 1, and a large distance corresponds to a 0.

In the interactive mode implemented in `random_template_interact.m` will ask the user to click on another specimen, and find the template score target boxes cantered at grid points in the neighborhood of the click. For better results, multiple boxes of different scales (with respect to the size of the original template box) are tested with each point. Then the point and scale with the highest score is chosen to be the best box, and displayed to the user. (This is the implementation in the python gui).

The automatic mode implemented in `random_template_scale.m` will apply the template to specific grid points all over the image, as well as different scales. Then the algorithm seeks to find the _best_ scores. It does so by first setting all scores that are not the max of all their neighbors to 0. This leave only the points that are local maximums left. Then it takes all of the remaining responses and thresholds them to throw away the lower ones, leaving only the highest ones. These are all displayed to the user.

